README.md, before:

# Sample for Lag Metrics for Event Hub

This repo sets up a minimal example (using Bicep) for using 
Lag Metrics for Event Hub and defining an Azure Monitor alert.

## Documentation

Documentation regarding Event Hub Lag Metrics can be found [here](https://huditech.github.io/lag-metrics/).

## Deploy the sample

You must create the resource group beforehand, e.g. with:

```
az group create \
  --name lag-metrics-sample \
  --location EastUS \
  --subscription YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME_OR_ID
```

The sample can then be deployed with:

```
az deployment group create \
    --resource-group lag-metrics-sample \
    --subscription YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME_OR_ID \
    -f main.bicep
```

You will be prompted for the email address that notifications should be sent to.

Alternatively, you can also run:

```
./deploy.sh youremail@example.com
```

This has the advantage that it automatically creates the `.env` file for the sender and receiver 
clients (see below).

## Send and receive messages

The `client` folder contain a Javascript client to produce messages
to Event Hub in order to trigger the alert. The connection strings are contained
in `clients/.env` which is auto-generated by `./deploy.sh`. You can simply run the sender:

```
cd clients
npm install
node sender.js
```

You now have to consume some messages. This causes offset/checkpoint information to be written.

```
node receiver.js
```

Now the lag can be calculated by Lag Metrics. You can observe the lag metrics being pulished after a few minutes. If the lag is above 100, an alert will be fired and a notification will be sent
via email. Expect a delay of a few minutes since the rule is only evaluated at certain intervals
by Azure Monitor.

NOTE: If no messages have been consumed at all, no lag will be detected. The reason for this is
that if no messages have been consumed, no offset information is available and thus no lag can 
be calculated.

Commit message:

Add hint about acceptance of terms

README.md, after:

# Sample for Lag Metrics for Event Hub

This repo sets up a minimal example (using Bicep) for using 
Lag Metrics for Event Hub and defining an Azure Monitor alert.

## Documentation

Documentation regarding Lag Metrics can be found [here](https://huditech.github.io/lag-metrics/).

## Deploy the sample

You must create the resource group beforehand, e.g. with:

```
az group create \
  --name lag-metrics-sample \
  --location EastUS \
  --subscription YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME_OR_ID
```

Before deploying Lag Metrics, Microsoft requires that the terms are accepted. Lag Metrics
uses the Microsoft-defined standard terms for Managed Applications without any amendments. 
You can find these terms [here](https://query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RWXcE3). Please review them and then accept them with the following command:

```
az vm image terms accept \
  --offer lag-metrics \
  --plan standard \
  --publisher huditechughaftungsbeschrnkt1673457598758
```

The sample can then be deployed with:

```
az deployment group create \
    --resource-group lag-metrics-sample \
    --subscription YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME_OR_ID \
    -f main.bicep
```

You will be prompted for the email address that notifications should be sent to.

Alternatively, you can also run:

```
./deploy.sh youremail@example.com
```

This has the advantage that it automatically creates the `.env` file for the sender and receiver 
clients (see below).

## Send and receive messages

The `client` folder contain a Javascript client to produce messages
to Event Hub in order to trigger the alert. The connection strings are contained
in `clients/.env` which is auto-generated by `./deploy.sh`. You can simply run the sender:

```
cd clients
npm install
node sender.js
```

You now have to consume some messages. This causes offset/checkpoint information to be written.

```
node receiver.js
```

Now the lag can be calculated by Lag Metrics. You can observe the lag metrics being pulished after a few minutes. If the lag is above 100, an alert will be fired and a notification will be sent
via email. Expect a delay of a few minutes since the rule is only evaluated at certain intervals
by Azure Monitor.

NOTE: If no messages have been consumed at all, no lag will be detected. The reason for this is
that if no messages have been consumed, no offset information is available and thus no lag can 
be calculated.
